IN war times, after a battle or a long march, how the soldiers enjoyed
their coffee! And in many cases it was pretty poor coffee, too, though
to them it seemed fit for the gods. The delicious aroma which arose
made their feelings of weariness or depression vanish for a while, and
the beverage itself cheered them in a marked degree. Nothing could take
its place; nothing can take its place to-day. The consumption of coffee
in this country is enormous. Rich and poor alike must have it. But it
is a common complaint that a cup of good coffee is the exception rather
than the rule. Considering the low price of the raw material, this
should not be the case. People are prone to think that they know all
there is to be known about coffee, and do not take pains to learn what
special qualities different brands possess, and what the most approved
modes of making coffee are.
Time was when a Mexican or South or Central American coffee was
considered an inferior article. To-day some of the best coffees come
from these places. For example, one of the most delicious coffees
which is brought into this country comes from Guatemala. It bears the
name of "Las Nubes" (The Clouds), which it takes from the plantation
where it is grown. There is an odd bit of history connected with this
plantation. A Scotchman named Nelson owned it, and was coining money
from it, when he was banished from the country by President Barrios,
and his property was confiscated. It is now owned by the widow of
Barrios. The annual yield from it is four hundred and fifty thousand
pounds. A large proportion of this goes to England, where it brings a
higher price than here.